All right so the examples in the last video
demonstrated when a class is initialised
and how to access static members of a class
using the class name qualifier,
or the instance reference variable,
even when the variable itself is null.
I've stated that you cannot define a static class
as a stand-alone class
but it has to be a nested class.
So what I'm gonna do is create a new class
in our methods project and show you this.
We're gonna give it the name StaticClassExample.
(keyboard keys click)
Now nested class has an up-ready part of the
1ZO-815 certification exam
but you should know if you see a static class
defined at the outer level it would be a compile error.
So let's just review this example
which has all three types of the static members for a class,
a static class, a static variable and a static method.
So first you can see we've got this class
utility class
and that defines a static abstract class
as a nested class it's doing that on line 15.
And the class logger
is a static abstract class as I mentioned,
which is said to be nested in this utility class.
This class will allow the consumer of the code
to create a custom logger class
by implementing their own class
which extends this abstract class
and then set it universally.
Now logger is a static variable as you can see on the screen
and we'll populate that
with a concrete logger that we'll create.
Log moving down is a static method
we called in our application code
which is a pass-through method to the logger class.
Right so scrolling down a bit further
so we're creating a class that extends utilityclass.logger
and this new class
implements this custom version of the method log,
and you can see that on line 34.
Now note that this class is not nested.
The static class example
move down here the bottom one on the third class
now creates an instance of the custom logger
and sets it to the static variable on the utility class.
So using the utility class static log method
which is a pass-through to our custom-logger log method.
You know there are only a few lines of code here
but it does demonstrate
how using modifiers allow you to extend your application
to allow custom enhancements
while also promoting uniformity of code in other areas.
So if you run this now
and there's the output.
Now if you had an application peppered with log statements
this method would allow you
to change the way they're presented with just some mechanism
with the logging osculating the change in a single place.
All right so I think the previous video on this one
have covered static elements on a class pretty thoroughly
pointing out nuances along the way.
What we're gonna do is skip
the usual out-of-ordinary video for this topic
and just go onto a few quiz questions next.
We'll continue onto the capsulation video after that quiz.
Good luck and I'll see you in the next video.